[Music]
Rich Dinh Minh Chien, I have another question:
When I'm at work, I get scolded by my superiors; when I'm
out on the street, I get yelled at; and when I come home, I get
scolded too.  If you find someone else to scold,
you'll avoid getting copied, but you'll still be committing a sin.
If a child doesn't scold others, they may
suffer from depression and easily lead to suicide.  Please
give me some advice.  This is a
very pressing issue for young people, especially in today's world where
talent is essential in all kinds of jobs and organizations.
Do you all agree?  Talent and
innovation are essential to keep pace with the modern lifestyle
.  Therefore, many young people have
aspects where their drive for self-improvement
doesn't keep up, so
naturally, they tend to make mistakes when they start working.
Mistakes lead to being undervalued, and being
undervalued leads to being reprimanded.   It's the same when you
go out on the street.  Because I'm
clumsy, because I'm hanging out with friends,
sometimes it's just very simple, folks.
Those young people, they're all together in a group,
but they're all cursing at the same bunch
.  I was walking in the crowd without swearing, and he
said, "You're such a clueless idiot."  That means I
also got insulted.  Do you all agree?   I
also got insulted.  Then, when you get home, your
parents might expect
something really good from you.  However, things
didn't go well, so my parents
scolded and supervised me.  Yen watched a
video about a girl from China whose parents
are both very successful. They
always try to get
their daughter a job that's beyond
her capabilities, even though she
just wants to become a teacher in her
hometown.  In the end, if she
ends up in this situation and jumps
from the top floor of the building to her death, only then
will the mother regret it after losing her child.  Because their parents are in
such a high position, they want their children to be equally
successful, to be on par with them,
and they don't want their children to become mediocre or to
fail. They simply can't accept that reality
.
So, here, she was scolded like that
until it became a huge source of stress and
suffering.  First, let's talk about
karma.  Why do I get
scolded like this everywhere I go?
This is because in a previous life I
often said unwholesome things and
hindered others.  They speak of good deeds, criticize and
ridicule good deeds, and praise
evil deeds.  Therefore, this result is present everywhere and at all times
.  Because those who often criticize
good deeds don't criticize them all the time and
everywhere, do they?  They criticize all the time and everywhere, and are
fond of evil and wicked deeds.
Do I have to like being everywhere all the time?
Therefore,
they are often criticized everywhere and at all times, and they have to resort to
doing things that
make others look down on them.
Knowing that,
you should now study Buddhist teachings
, understand karma, and
praise good deeds.  First, you must understand that
this is the cause, this is the effect, this is
good, and this is evil.
Do not participate in, praise, or
comment on evil deeds.  As for actions that are good and
beneficial, bringing happiness to
others—for example, actions that demonstrate trustworthiness, righteousness, filial piety
, and kindness—you should
often speak of and praise these things to
eliminate this negative karma.  That's it, you have to do it regularly to
eliminate
karma.  Secondly, you should learn about cause and effect
to understand it clearly.  Therefore, when
you are scolded for no reason, if you have the
patience due to your enlightenment, you will
never be stressed.  Furthermore, you should
choose a good environment for yourself, one that is a
Buddhist environment where Buddhists are
enlightened in the Dharma, know how to share, and
live with
love and compassion.  So, you
need to find such an environment.
You should look for a
Buddhist practice club where you can join, share your thoughts,
and express your opinions so that your
sharing won't be copied.  Because if
someone shares their story, it won't be copied,
right, everyone?  That's right, you need to find
someone to confide in who is both intelligent and compassionate,
and then you'll stop feeling so miserable.   We
also hope that you, Dinh Minh Chien, will
share your thoughts with us.  Although
we don't know much ourselves,
we will share everything we
can to help you
transform your karma and
overcome
difficult times.  I don't know
where you are, but if you're interested,
you should consider joining one of the many youth clubs at Ba Vang Pagoda
.  You could come back here for
another summer retreat, listen to the monks'
Dharma lectures, and participate in
meditation sessions; this will help you achieve inner peace and
overcome your difficulties.
Question from Lich Nguyen Thao.   Ms. Bach
, I love children very much, so I'm studying
early childhood education.  I used to
teach for a while.  In the class I'm in
charge of, there are two children with severe depression and
early signs of hyperactivity.  The class has two teachers in charge;
one plays the villain, and the other plays the good girl (who is the
daughter), so the children tend to feel closer to the daughter than to the
other teacher.  In particular, those two sick children cling
to me all the time, whether it's during class, mealtimes, or
even bedtime; I have to hug two or three of
them before I'll fall asleep.  There are times when I feel completely
exhausted.  Sometimes, when the children get sick, my child gets
sick too.  Some teachers advised me that because I'm not very healthy, I
shouldn't have too much contact with children.
Especially because the children are sick,
very bad energy will cling to me.  I've
retired from teaching now.  Could you please take a look and
explain to me if the energy levels of
children with autism and ADHD are very negative
?  I love my grandchildren very much.  Thank you,
miss.  Well, ladies and gentlemen,
the number of children with ADHD and autism is now
very high.  It's causing a sudden surge in demand
.  Many parents suffer greatly.
Children with autism may be born with the
condition, or they may develop it later in life; it's
not just something that happens to
newborns.  So, if we're talking about
karma, then it's true that people with
autism or ADHD will naturally
have heavier karma.  Compared to
normal children,
those with heavier karma naturally
attract more of their heavier karmic burdens
.  Because we are still sentient beings,
we have both good and
bad mental states.  So, when you're around people with
bad intentions, what happens to your own mind
?  It will be evil.
If you are close to the hearts of good people, you will become
good yourself.  So, this is the principle of
karma.  So, if there's anything that can help us
avoid this, let's choose
compassion.  So, teachers, you must cultivate
compassion in your hearts, and when you help the
children, your merit will increase.
That means your merit is increasing.  When working with
self-taught children, if you don't think about
the effort involved, meaning you only think about the money,
then you will attract negative karma.
But if you use compassion,
you won't attract negative karma from
those children.  Because evil thoughts
often enter good thoughts.  Therefore, if you cultivate a
kind heart
, simply by having a compassionate heart—that is, a heart of love
, a heart of sharing, a heart of helping others—
you will immediately accumulate merit and blessings, and you will be
healthy and won't get sick.  It's
impossible for a Buddha to get sick because the Buddha, whose heart is one of
salvation, never gets sick before sentient beings,
right?  But if we teach
the children and then see them behaving in such a way
and we hit or beat them with malicious intent, that is
creating bad karma.  I'm reaping the
consequences of my actions, not because you kids caused
me to suffer the consequences.  So,
this is how each person handles it.  If,
when faced with children who don't
understand, don't know, are difficult to teach, or are hard to guide, we
cultivate a loving heart, that is a meritorious deed
.  That meritorious deed will provide protection and generate
great blessings for oneself.  Here
we can also understand the shortcomings of the
teachers.  She's called a
preschool teacher.  You girls must distinguish
between a good person and an evil person, that is,
one who shouts, and what?  Someone caught him.
If both of them try to help, the child
won't listen.  Because children don't always obey orders
.  Do you all
understand?  He won't
listen to orders, beatings won't work, and
yelling won't work either.  That's why
the teachers have to separate them.  For example, if
a woman yells at you to beat her up,
she might say, "Okay, okay, okay, okay, come here and
apologize to me."  So, it learned how to
apologize.  They're right, aren't they?  Okay, now
apologize to her.  That's how the
baby will naturally start to feel
sorry.  Therefore, these women also
have many means that stem from
love.  Therefore, the teachers will assign
one teacher to play the villain and one teacher to play the
hero in order to help the children.  Through this, I am
deeply moved by the dedication
of preschool teachers, and
we should share, encourage, and
empathize with them
.  The truth is, there are some very disturbing issues
in society, such as people
brutally beating children.
Do you all agree?  That was a brutal beating.  But
then, beating those children who don't know
anything is just too cruel.  That's it,
we condemn it so that others can learn from it
.  But as for the
teachers, I understand a little bit;
if they get spanked a few times,
I understand because they're working
so hard.  They don't listen when you tell them, and they
don't know fear when you threaten them.  And yet they just do whatever they like
.  Therefore, it's more difficult.  When we get
home, it's the biggest one anyway.
That kid is now the biggest kid in the family
.  So when I'm at home, if I like something, I just think about it right
away.  So, when they go to
class and don't get what they want, they
cry.  So a group of 20 kids also demanded
not to cry.  So, with a whole
system like that, how could just a few teachers
possibly handle it, right?  Here,
which Buddhist has grandchildren or children?
Even very young children should be taught by themselves.  I personally teach my
children to be disciplined, to
love, to be considerate, and to know what
to accept and what not to accept.  "No
demanding" means that if we teach our children at home,
then naturally, they won't
have any problems in class.  Right?  There you go.
Next question.  Students from the Vietnam Maritime University and
Hai Phong Medical University wrote the following question: "
Teacher, I would like to ask if someone who has had an
abortion but wants to have children again
and is unable to conceive, is
that person suffering the consequences of the abortion
? And if they do get pregnant again, what should they
do?"  Yen will elaborate on this point
.
Karma can be divided into past karma and
present karma.  In the old days, if the elders here were
too old, then I wouldn't count them.  For
older people, it's normal to have 5, 7, 10, or even 14 or 15 children
.  But at our age,
many elderly people have already had abortions.  But then they have an abortion and
then get pregnant again right away
.  Sometimes, even after scrubbing five or six times, they
can still stop immediately.
If you have had an abortion once,
you may still be able to have children if you have accumulated good
karma from a previous life.  However, if you had
very little merit in your previous life, and in this life
you only have one, two,
or three children, then the karma
from your abortion will immediately cause the merit you would have had for
those two or three children to
disappear.  This means that your karma
will cause you to lose your blessings, and
you will no longer be able to have children.  This is the
answer for several cases.  So,
in this case,
what do you do now to be able to have children again?
If, in the
second case, you are blessed with
only a few children in this lifetime, then you must immediately cultivate
merit in this lifetime.  You must
understand that it is an evil deed, an extremely evil deed.  Because if
I don't feel compassion for my own child, I
certainly won't be able to feel compassion for
other living beings.  That's karma.  Then
you must repent and vow
never to do it again.  And I ask that you
perform acts of merit, release animals into the wild, and do
good deeds.  Then you should pray for the
souls of these unborn babies.  And in countless
past lives, if you have ever harmed
any living being in the womb or in the womb,
you should also make offerings,
repent, and perform meritorious deeds to dedicate the merit.
This blessing will increase for you, and
you will be able to continue having children.
But all those who understand
these things must first have the
initial blessing of believing in karma.  So, believing
in karma is a very auspicious kind of blessing
.  That's why, believing in cause and effect,
this person is able to do many good deeds and
abandon many evil ones.  Only then will the
blessings increase.  As for
those who don't believe in karma,
they have fewer opportunities to do good and more opportunities to create
bad karma.  Therefore, those who believe
in karma often receive
more blessings because their belief and understanding
generate
blessings through their own enlightened awareness.
Question from Facebook user Như Ngọc.  Dear
teacher, recently, two
Facebook accounts, Nguyen The Minh and Tran Minh
Long, have posted
very timely reflections on the abbot of Ba Vang Pagoda.
Please convey my thanks to
them, and please share your thoughts
with everyone.  Did anyone in our group
share the articles by Nguyen The
Minh and Tran Minh Long?
First of all, Yen would like to express her sincere gratitude for the meritorious deeds
of these two friends, Nguyen The Minh
and Tran Minh Long.  And what about the "
right time" part?  Because at that time, we Buddhists
witnessed injustices.
Yet there were two Buddhists who had
not yet practiced at Ba Vang Pagoda.
This means these two individuals have not yet practiced at Ba
Vang Temple, nor are they members of our community
.  From somewhere, I wrote these articles,
expressing my heartfelt feelings about my teacher.  Therefore,
we admire you all.  That's also
a form of encouragement.  Is this spirit of
encouraging harmony what we call a book for the general public?
So, here, Yen also humbly accepts the meritorious
deeds of the two of you.  However, in
Buddhism, there are eight kinds of praise that, if
one rejoices in them, do not yet mean they are a true practitioner.  Being upset when
someone curses at you is not the mark of a true spiritual practitioner.
Because, you see, the person who insults you is
n't necessarily the one who will harm you.  Just because
they understand and have attained enlightenment
doesn't mean they are good people.  Those who are good
to me become my fellow practitioners.
So, if I'm upset by someone insulting
me, then I'm being immoral,
right?
I'm not a monk.  And
if we are happy because of praise, then in
the five desires, that is fame.  There.  Should the reputation be
removed?  Remove.  Yen will recount
the dangers of accepting
compliments and help.  That means
we are happy and grateful for help during
difficult times, which can sometimes be very hard.
For example, if a husband and wife are arguing and
can't share their feelings, and then
a third person suddenly appears to share
theirs, is this considered a threat or a benefit?   It
was a good thing I didn't
die at that moment, but if I hadn't been aware of
the danger, I would have been incredibly
foolish.  Do you all agree?
Because they might be a
truly good friend, when they share with
me, I still appreciate their kindness.  But
should we be cautious within this mindset
?  Because I'm easily tempted to fall into temptation.  It should have just
been a quarrel between the husband and wife;
sometimes I even helped to mend their relationship.  But
the person who shared that information will be the one who causes
me to lose my family.
Do you all agree?
Similarly, the same applies to business dealings
.  In difficult times, when
someone helps you,
you must remain mindful of the extent of their assistance.   To some extent,
I still have to stay awake and not be
delirious.  There, do you all understand now?  Because of this, some
people take advantage of the situation, while others are good people
.  Therefore, to avoid
equating good people with bad people, we should be
grateful for any help they give us and never forget that kindness
.  But it hasn't been
considered good yet.  The Buddha taught this:  Don't be
quick to believe even what the Buddha said; only believe it
after you have practiced it and found it to be true and
beneficial.  So
now, Yen would like to invite two friends,
Nguyen The Minh and Tran Minh Long.
Yen isn't telling you this directly, but
she's giving you an example.  At some point, Nguyen
The Minh and Tran Minh Long had become close friends
with everyone else.  You are not
thinking, you are not contemplating.  So what
if at some point they
become bad people, because they have some grievance
or they make up some
story, and they put it all on the
photos, showing the teacher going out like this, eating like
this, sleeping like this, claiming I'm a close friend,
hanging out with him?  So, those people at that time
immediately suspected the teacher.
Because, as they say, "This person is so good,
so close to me, and yet they're acting
like this now. If we're not as close,
how would we know?"  Do the general public
agree?   At some
point, he revealed
things that had never existed,
things that Buddhists refused to think about,
refused to contemplate, refused to
observe.  right?  Then, whatever the
teacher taught me, I naturally forget, and
I immediately follow that other person.
Do you agree?  Therefore, we
need to know what the teacher brings to us, and
feel it; that's what truly makes us who we are.
As for listening to others, if I think it's right, then I'll accept it as I see fit
.  I'm not
overly happy about it, nor am I upset because someone insulted the teacher
.  Is that clear to everyone?
Yen is just giving an example
because we are living in the
Facebook world, which is a virtual world.  Here it is.  Yen
needs to see that these women are really
here.  Practicing together every day,
supporting each other – that's what's truly effective.
Do you all agree?  When we understand each other, and
no one can say anything about it, then we are truly authentic
.  And what about the virtual world? Do
you see a lot of suffering in online relationships
?  My dreams are shattered.  Right
?  Many people fall in love online, only to have their relationship
fall apart when they meet in person.  Therefore, while
we can observe, contemplate, and think about the world on Facebook, let's
not believe it too quickly.  Just listen to what you hear,
but don't believe it too quickly.  Now, Yen will only give an
example.  After such a long time
, today she messaged
this person and that person saying that
I had just made a donation to the temple in this way and that way
.  After a while,
another friend came along who was just like that.  That's because Yen
didn't mention these two.  Yen is just giving an example
.  You messaged me again saying that
the teacher was going here and there today, but he said that we
should all contribute our efforts in this way and that way
.  So they sent the money over.  So,
were we deceived?  You get scammed, and
then you blame everything on
others.  So, if we're not vigilant,
we'll die.  So, when we study Buddhism,
we must apply the Buddha's teachings
to all situations.
We have to experience it firsthand, with
our own clear vision, before we can
believe it.  Perceiving through clear sight.
I really did play with that person.  I
did actually do these things with
that person.  And I really saw that person applying the
teacher's advice.  And I saw that he changed
careers because he applied what his teacher taught him.  What time is it
?  I just heard it.  Do you understand?
Please remember this, everyone.
Dear friends, immediately after Buddhist follower
Pham Thi Yen answered this question during the
Dharma discourse on May 6,
2018, until 10:35 PM on
May 9, 2018, Nick Tran
Minh Long posted an article containing information that
contradicted the praises of the
abbot that he had previously posted,
aiming to sow discord among Buddhist followers.
This happened exactly as Buddhist devotee
Pham Thi Yen had predicted during the Dharma discourse.
[music]